We'll come back.
We're so close.
We're going to talk about data management now.
And what we can do to improve security when it comes to data management data management encompasses
many ideas.
But there's a few topics for example you want to make sure you always have backups.
Some people like backing up their website data static files somewhere safe.
Never have one point of failure.
That is one place that is weak and if that gets down then you have no place else to recover from.
You want to make sure that you limit sensitive data exposure.
That is you want to encrypt data arrest so that is jumbling it up so that people can see it and in transition.
Now here's the thing.
What I just said encrypting data at rest and in transition.
Most of the time is not feasible because encrypting data rest means when data is just sitting there
pretty much let's say in a database encrypting all that data costs a lot of money requires a lot of
effort and is just not feasible and it doesn't completely cover your bases in transition means when
you're sending data.
So when you're sending data from the database to the server when you sending data from the server to
the client we know that a sheet is used in that case.
Now you want to be selective of what data you encrypt and why you don't.
Based on your resources at hand you might want to encrypt sensitive information like phone numbers email
addresses of your users but perhaps not necessarily worry about pet names of the users that pen names
column on a database maybe you don't need to encrypt.
So what can we do with data management Well I'm going to show you a quick example of some of the things
you can do.
But the main ideas you want to use encryption for any data identifying users and sensitive data like
Access tokens emails and billing.
Like I said.
And finally as we mentioned with backups you want those backups to be stored to be ideally encrypted
as well.
Again that may not always be feasible but you want to focus on the sensitive data first.
And anything else that you can encrypt.
You should do so.
Now I want to talk about two main topics.
One is hashing passwords and how to store them.
And the second is how to encrypt your database that has sensitive data.
The second part over here is really dependent on your database so I'm not going to go over it because
it's too too specific.
But tools like PGE crypto allow you to encrypt a few columns on a postscripts database.
One of my favorite databases and they have great documentation.
So that's something you can do.
But if I was using 3G crypto I'll probably encrypt the billing address or email column of the users
or anything sensitive for a user column.
That is just good practice.
But one of the topics that really fascinates me and actually love is password storage.
And I know that's a geeky thing to say but it is really really exciting.
I actually wrote a company blog in my past life on this topic song going to leave that for you at the
end of this course.
And it's also something that we've already covered in my previous course but I'm going to do a quick
rundown of what you should do with passwords.
Any web site that has user name and password and seinen needs to have good data management especially
when it comes to passwords.
So what can we do.
Well there's three libraries that are really really good and these three libraries are really good because
they're tried and tested when it comes to security.
You want to choose packages that have been around for a long time because security experts hackers black
hat and white hat hackers all have tested it and have stood the test of time.
And these three have really stood the test of time are gone to is fairly new but it's been doing really
really well.
I personally like crypto So let me show you a quick demonstration I have over here a file.
Let me make this a little bit bigger that I downloaded the crypt no guess package just to have it working
with no js very easily.
And that's pretty much it.
And if I go to their packages over here we see that they have a Synchronoss option and an asynchronous
option so let's just copy the first part and I'm going to explain what it does and I don't like bacon.
I'm going to go with soup here so when your Web site has a user name and password why should we do well
the first thing you're going to do is you're going to let the user type in their username and password.
And then they're going to click submit when they click submit.
You're going to make sure that it's a CBS so that the password and the user name you put it in the CBS
request in the body of the request you send it over to the backend and then it arrives.
Let's say that this is your back and once it arrives you grab that password and will say that your password
that you just typed is soop very weak password.
I know but we'll just use it for demonstration purposes.
Now what we do is we never store passwords like this in our database because if our database gets compromised
or somebody enters it they have all the passwords of everybody.
Never ever do that.
Instead we use B crypt which allows us to hash.
And if you remember hashing from our S-sh section it's a one way Fange a function that will take the
superstrings and turn it into a jumbled up string that well we'll never get to know that came from soup.
So let me show you.
I'm going to say
Konsole
log the hash
let's save Ron Noad
script and look at that.
We got the hash this you do not want to copy that.
This really really jumbled up strings string that represents soup.
Even if a bad actor gets into our database and sees oh yeah.
Password is this they're not going to be able to do anything with it because they don't know they can
go to the Web site and type in this because well that won't work.
My password is soup.
So how does that work.
We store this in the database for the user.
Let's say Andri and when Andre comes back I don't like using my own name.
Let's use Tim as an example.
When Tim comes back how can we check that when Tim types soup again.
That that is the same as this hash that we have in the database.
Well we go back to the crypt they have a nother method called compair and this compare is going to compare
the string that Tim puts in when he comes back to the website again to sign in.
And the hash that we have stored in the database.
In my case let's say I have this stored in the database.
And again if you're not too familiar with databases I do recommend you check out my previous course.
And there's our.
Let's actually make it into a string.
So that's our hash tag we just scrap from the database.
All right.
Now here we get a response so let's see what the response is going to be.
And then I say console all.
Response when Save run this you see that I got.
True.
So now I know that.
Yup that's tent's password.
He can sign in.
But if Tim misspell something let's say I leave.
I do.
Capital S
and an exclamation mark.
I save and run this.
Nope that's not your password.
Try again.
And it's good enough that even a capital attacked.
There you go.
Because a hash.
Any small change in the password is going to spit out a completely different hash.
Now in case you're wondering what gnoll Noal here is.
Well in my article that I wrote I talk about Salt's runs and how it adds extra layers of security.
It's a complex topic and beyond the scope of this course but do read it if you're interested in it.
It's just an extra security measure but what it does is if you notice how slow we get the hash and then
it takes a bit of time to get the true or false.
Let me show you if I save this and run this again.
You see that pause where the hash was hashed.
Really really fast but this took a bit of time.
Let's see again.
So what happens there is it's extra protection by B crypt.
It's saying all right if there was a bad person.
Again just keep trying passwords until I get a match.
So be script using something called Salt's rounds makes these brute force attacks where the person just
keeps trying passwords really hard because it takes long.
It takes a bit of time to actually check.
So if I was a bad attacker I would keep trying these but because B crypt is slow it would take a really
really long time for me to guess a password and it's another layer of protection that comes with crypt
and most good hashing libraries.
Again data management is really really important and this goes back to environment variables as well.
Any secrets even including your S-sh key you want to manage it properly.
Never reveal your secrets.
Always make it as hard as possible for bad actors to access sensitive information.
I'll see in the next one.